# tEaMnEw
The Complete Covid-Blog created For Covid Awreness
This pandemic has brought suffering, fear, and death to populations everywhere. But its impact is not shared equally. Many of the most vulnerable have already suffered terribly due to a lack of State investment in healthcare for all. Others are living through conflicts, witnessing the erosion of International Humanitarian Law. As humanitarian teams have been partially evacuated and not replaced, those reliant on aid, and those suffering from neglected diseases, are suffering disproportionately. Others have been forced to flee their homes; forced to navigate a world where conventions protecting refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced people are frequently disregarded, and where little consideration is given to migrants. This pandemic has brought suffering, fear, and death to populations everywhere. But its impact is not shared equally. Today, we must acknowledge that this pandemic comes after years of questioning humanitarian assistance and principles, and innumerable cases of violence against health workers and facilities. One of the terrible paradoxes now, is that the very governments that have created conditions in which the vulnerable are left disproportionately exposed to COVID-19, are the same governments who are now making calls for solidarity and cooperation. Whilst money is vital, financial contributions alone cannot fix healthcare inequality and exclusion. Use your influence, your power, your domestic and foreign policy, to bring healthcare for all. The COVID crisis amplifies and deepens existing inequalities. Healthcare for all people: without excluding the homeless or undocumented migrants, the prisoners, or indigenous people. They have all been terribly affected by COVID, as have the elderly in many countries. We have a duty to ensure no one is excluded from healthcare, and you will not be safe from the virus until you fulfil it. And that means marginalised communities too.
Healthcare workers all around the world are risking their lives to provide care. Today, we are still facing serious shortages of basic protective equipment. Without proper PPE, we cannot protect our staff and patients.

In addition to safety, we need access to those at most need, and essential medical tools like oxygen and testing.  
In some areas we have been able to adapt and innovate the way we deliver care, maintaining a limited and reduced service for our patients.  
You have the power to change these situations. Governments must immediately lift restrictions and allow humanitarians access. More vulnerable populations, like those in Bangladesh, DRC, Haiti, or in the new epicentre of South America, must be supported with real solidarity.
And they will also need you to take responsibility for what is coming next. Because COVID is creating devastating waves. Increased poverty, malnutrition, excess mortality. We are increasingly worried about countries like Central African Republic, where the cumulative impact risks producing critical humanitarian needs.
We must prepare now for these secondary impacts, which will be at least as devastating as the virus itself, and will follow the current situation where many facilities have been overwhelmed.

People will need to take responsibility for what is coming next. Because COVID is creating devastating waves. Increased poverty, malnutrition, excess mortality.
Communicable diseases will have an increased impact as a result of COVID measures.

In April, 24 of the world’s poorest nations postponed vaccination programmes in response to the limitations imposed upon them by COVID. So, something like 120 million people - mostly children – may NOT be vaccinated in outbreak or will miss their scheduled vaccines. Of countries where data is available, more than half report disruption or total suspension of their vaccination services.

We see how women and girls are bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from these secondary impacts. Sexual and reproductive health services, including safe abortion care, are not a luxury. They are always essential health care. During emergencies, these needs become even greater.

Treatments and vaccines cannot become opportunities either for profit, or political control. A “business as usual” approach is not only unacceptable; it will be ineffective.

You will not be safe from COVID-19, until everyone is safe from COVID-19. From the poorest displaced families to the richest individuals: this virus will continue to be a global threat for as long as it takes for vaccines and treatment to be available to all.
